---
title: Candy Crush Soda Saga
developer: King
reviewDate: 2014-11-25T14:11:52-05:00
---

Some background: I was one of those players who played through the
first hundred levels of the original Candy Crush. The first couple
impressions I had about the original was that it was very polished,
and that playing was surprisingly addictive. I stopped playing
somewhere past one hundred fifty, or so, because a part of me had
begun to believe that the game was frustratingly unfair. I had found
myself grinding on levels, playing each a score of times hoping for a
lucky configuration. I should also add that I never spent a single
cent on Candy Crush, and that even when I was one move from victory, I
would never buy extra moves. So, I quit the game on a particularly
frustrating level (probably one of the chocolate ones). Note that my
perspective thus comes from never playing past a certain level of the
first Candy Crush, and also never buying anything.

When I learned that there was a new Candy Crush, I had a mixed
reaction of delight and annoyance. The delight was because of some
hope I'd be able to achieve some wisp of the magic I felt when I first
played the original. The annoyance was out of the foreknowledge that I
would be incredibly frustrated. 

I've been playing Candy Crush Soda Saga for a few days now. I'm glad
to say I have relived some of the delight of the previous game. There
is a new soda mechanic that causes pieces to flow in a different
direction that gives some freshness to the game.  Additionally, there
is a new way to match pieces. You can match rectangular arrangements
of blocks (such as a 2x2 continguous block) into a swedish-fish
special block that, when cleared, swims towards trap blocks to clear
them. This new type of matching is interesting because of the new
board arrangements it facilitates. In particular, there is the level
shown below:

![Candy Crush Soda Saga Level](img/candy_crush_soda_saga.png)

Pieces flow clock-wise around the ring when cleared. The objective in
this stage is to free the gummi bears in the center. Note the
narrowness of the track! The only way to clear the center blocks is to
use striped-candy, color bomb, or the new special fish candies.

Although still frustrating, I think the new elements add just enough
variety that the luck-factor is manageable. In particular, adding new
ways to match and clear blocks gives a sense of progress that is very
gratifying. I recommend that if you were frustrated with the original
and stopped playing, that you give this sequel a try.

[Get Candy Crush Soda Saga in the App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/candy-crush-soda-saga/id850417475?mt=8&uo=4&at=10lJ8m)

